2024.05.24
//draft3
The grammar, spelling, and readability of the blog post are good overall, with just a few minor tweaks that can improve clarity and flow. Here's the edited version with minimal changes:

**To start, I don't think there's a clear-cut definition of a frontend program.** Most of the guides I've found online use this term fairly liberally. So, I'll define frontend programs as programs that **give users more options to interact with** AI LLM models, but **can't run the models themselves**. To interact with the LLM model, you'll need to use a backend program installed on your computer. This backend program will either run the models or connect the frontend program to an online AI service with an API.

**What is an API?**
API, which stands for Application Programming Interface, acts as a middleman between different software programs. It allows them to **talk** to each other and exchange data or functionality.

**So, what's the point of having a frontend program if it can't run the program by itself?** Frontend programs can provide you with many benefits, depending on the program. Some of these benefits include:

- Modifying the AI's prompt to have more control over the overall token output
- Lorebook and other methods to handle the AI's memory
- Aesthetically pleasing graphical user interfaces (GUIs)

**There are a few frontend programs available.** Some I've experienced, and others I'm only aware of. Here are a few examples:

1. Sillytavern
2. TavernAI
3. Ollama
4. Jan
5. llama.cpp
6. KoboldCpp

Some programs might not perfectly match my definition of frontend programs. I'll explain and show you how to install some of the programs I've used in the next post.


//draft2
To start off I don't think there is a clear cut defination of a frontend program. Most of the guilds I have found on the web use this term fairlly liberally. So I define frontend programs as programs that give the user more options to engage with the AI LLM models but can't run the model itself. In order to engage with the LLM model you will have to use a backend program installed on you computer that will run the models or connect the frontend program to an online AI service with an API.

What is an API?
API, which stands for Application Programming Interface, acts as a middleman between different software programs. It allows them to talk to each other and exchange data or functionality.

So what's the point of having a frontend program if the program could not run the program by itself? Frontend programs can provide you with many different perks depending on the program. Some of the perks include but are not limited to modifying AI's prompt to have more control over the overall token, lorebook and other methods to handle the memory of the AI and some aesthetically pleasing graphic user interface. 

There are few frontend programs. Some I have exerianced and others I am only aware of. Here are few examples.
1. Sillytavern
2. TavernAI
3. Ollama
4. . Jan
5. llama.cpp
6. KoboldCpp

Some programs might not match with the defination of what I said about frontend programs. I will explain and show you how to install some programs I have use in the next post. 



//draft1
Frontend is a program that help you engaged with the AI LLM model with more options. The frontend program can not run the LLM model itself. You have to either have a backend program installed on your computer to run the LLM file or connect the frontend program to a online AI service with an API. 

So what is the point of having a frontend to engage with? Well frontend programs can provide with many quality of life options Few example include ability to modify AI's prompt to have more control of the overall token, lorebook and other methods to handle the memory of the AI and some estetically pleasing graphic user interface. 

There are few frontend programs Some I have experianced and others I am only aware of. Here are few example. 

1. Sillytavern
2. TavernAI

These are few I didn't tired yet. I am not sure if they are just frontend program or programs that can also work as a backend. 

1. Ollama
2. Jan
3. llama.cpp
4. KoboldCpp

In the next post I will explain how to install the program above. 

