2024.05.02
There are different online AI model. One is online service that work like chat bot, other way to use an api to connect the online model to other service. 

There are different online AI models that are currently on service right now. The most popular AI chatbots such as Chatgpt, Gemini, Llama, Mistral, Claude to name a few. These AI tool is very powerful and can do many thing to aid you in your practical and creative indevor. 

I will be using all of these service in future and reviewing their pro and cons. 
I will share my experiance while using these services and how the results came out. 

However this is not the end of the online model. There are other ways to use these service. You can connect some of these AI service API(application programming interface) to other website or frontend service and can used as such. This will be paid service, paying per token, unlike open chat stated above. 

This can be used to create stories and roleplaying but this will be under each services term of service so no matter what frontend service you are connecting the API to you will still be getting some decline of service 

Some of the service I have tried out myself are listed below. I will go over them on the review. 

1. Chatgpt
2. Gemini
3. Llma
4. Copilot
5. Claude
6. Mistral
7. Grok

There are other different online service that focuse on specific tasks focusing on practical or creative generations. Looking at some creative generation there are some options. There are free options and paid options. Pricing may vary depeting of different service. Here are some options that I know. 

1. KoboldAI Hord
2. NovelAI
3. CharacterAI
4. JanitorAI
5. Novelcrafter

As you might have noticed most of the options available is focused on roleplaying. ****
